Add Lifecyle page to design guidelines (#174)
primer/design: content/foundations/lifecycle.mdx

---

> title: Lifecyle

Reviewer: Should this be called "component lifecycle"?

```suggestion
title: Component lifecyle
```

---

> These milestones summarize the maturity lifecycle of UI components in Primer. Components are required to meet all criteria _before_ being proceeding to a given milestone.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These milestones summarize the maturity lifecycle of UI components in Primer. Components must meet all criteria _before_ proceeding to a given milestone.
```

Reviewer: IMO "Components must meet all criteria _before_ proceeding to a given milestone" isn't super clear. 

Is there a concise way to say: "Components must meet all criteria **of a milestone** _before_ proceeding to **that milestone**"?

Reviewer: I'm also a little on the fence about calling these "milestones" since we use that term a lot of other contexts (e.g. we have a "milestones" feature in GitHub). What if we called them "stages"?

## Experimental

> Proof-of-concept built outside of Primer.

Reviewer 2: Would it be possible to add 1 or 2 examples, to clarify what this means?

## Alpha

The component is ready for preliminary usage, with breaking changes expected.

> - <details><summary>The component does not have external dependencies that are not relevant to end-user experiences. </summary>This could be external libraries or dependencies on libraries in an application (like GitHub.com)</details>

Reviewer 2: Is there a way to not have a double negative here?

I would also show all the text at once and remove all details/summary instances from this page.

Author: @yaili - @broccolini wanted to use the summary/details elements to make the page less intimidating. I'm fine with going either direction though.

Reviewer 2: I see. It makes the content much harder to read though. I was feeling lost with what was expended and what wasn't. I think if it's intimidating we have 2 options: a) accept that it is and embrace it 😆 or b) edit the content so it's less intimidating.

- <details><summary>The component is compatible with color modes and can adapt to different themes. </summary>The component does not reference any hard-coded static values and uses functional variables. Any temporary or app-level variables have been removed. Theme values (such as a new brand scheme) can be swapped out without touching the public API of the component.</details>
- Basic documentation exists that includes example usage of the component.
- Primary use cases tested and reviewed.
- The component has 100% test coverage.

## Beta

The component meets most maturity criteria, and use is encouraged for most scenarios.

> - <details><summary>The component is used in a production application in multiple instances.</summary>Expectation is three or more instances in dotcom for PVC, at least one or more instances for PRC. Usage has been audited and reviewed.</details>

Reviewer: I think we should avoid using acronyms in our documentation:
```suggestion
- <details><summary>The component is used in a production application in multiple instances.</summary>Expectation is three or more instances in dotcom for Primer ViewComponents, at least one or more instances for Primer React. Usage has been audited and reviewed.</details>
```

> - <details><summary>The component is used in a production application in multiple instances.</summary>Expectation is three or more instances in dotcom for Primer ViewComponents, at least one or more instances for Primer React. Usage has been audited and reviewed.</details>

Reviewer 2: Will we have more detail somewhere about what "audited and reviewed" means exactly?

> - <details><summary>Usage guidelines and configuration documentation covers common use cases.</summary>Implementation of additional features (secondary priorities) is expected during Beta. Additional and most common use cases should be documented by this phase. Documentation should include a sandbox environment such as Storybook.</details>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- <details><summary>Usage guidelines and configuration documentation covers common use cases.</summary>Implementation of additional features (secondary priorities) is expected during beta. Additional and most common use cases should be documented by this phase. Documentation should include a sandbox environment such as Storybook.</details>
```

Reviewer 2: Should the "shoulds" in this paragraph should be "musts"?

> - <details><summary>The design has been reviewed and any resulting issues have been addressed.</summary>Systems Designers have reviewed the current implementation and how it’s being used in production.</details>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- <details><summary>The design has been reviewed and any resulting issues have been addressed.</summary>Systems Designers have reviewed the current implementation and how it’s used in production.</details>
```

- The accessibility team has manually reviewed the component and any outstanding issues have been fixed.

> - <details><summary>The component does not introduce unnecessary performance regressions to the user experience or the Primer library.</summary>Where a component is handling loading states or progressive loading of UI, this may require designing for performance.</details>

Reviewer 2: Can we have a link that explains what "designing for performance" mean? Is there an authoritative resource we can link to?

Author: I think we can remove the second sentence here 👍🏻

## Stable

The component is significantly mature and usage is strongly encouraged, with long-term support expected.

> - <details><summary>The API remains stable, with no breaking changes for at least one month.</summary>Feedback has been sought and stats on component usage and implementation use cases reviewed. Complex components may require more detailed research, such as setting up scenarios that let consumers test the usability of the API.</details>

Reviewer: Should we provide any guidance on what kind of stats are important to review before moving to stable?

Reviewer 2: How are we proposing that feedback is collected? We should document that process so it's consistent and repeatable.

Reviewer 2: > Complex components may require more detailed research, such as setting up scenarios that let consumers test the usability of the API.

Does this mean the more detailed research is done at this stage or after?

> - <details><summary>Documentation exists for the remaining implementation, usage, and design guidelines.</summary>PRC and/or PVC documentation includes all props and variations, accessibility guidelines (including common misuses), and common scenarios. Design documentation is added to Interface Guidelines. Figma components are available in the Primer Web library.</details>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- <details><summary>Documentation exists for the remaining implementation, usage, and design guidelines.</summary>Primer React and/or Primer ViewComponents documentation includes all props and variations, accessibility guidelines (including common misuses), and common scenarios. Design documentation is added to Interface Guidelines. Figma components are available in the Primer Web library.</details>
```

> - <details><summary>Documentation exists for the remaining implementation, usage, and design guidelines.</summary>Primer React and/or Primer ViewComponents documentation includes all props and variations, accessibility guidelines (including common misuses), and common scenarios. Design documentation is added to Interface Guidelines. Figma components are available in the Primer Web library.</details>

Reviewer 2: > Figma components are available in the Primer Web library

I thought Figma components should exist in the Primer Sandbox library by alpha or beta at the latest?

> - Tooling (such as linters, codemods, etc.) to prevent further use of alternatives.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Tooling (such as linters, codemods, etc.) exists to prevent further use of alternatives.
```

## Deprecated

> The component will be removed in the future and should be avoided.

Reviewer 2: Should we have a timeline for this? Or can a component be in the deprecated state indefinitely?

Author: I think that's a good question. I'm guessing it depends on the component being deprecated.

> - Documentation exists for the deprecation and alternative solutions.

Reviewer 2: Should this be fleshed out a little? For example: where does the documentation exist, what format? And does the alternative solution need to be at a certain stage, for example alpha?

> - Using the component emits a warning.

Reviewer 2: I think we need to rephrase this 😅  can we be more specific?

## Removed

The component no longer exists in Primer.

> - The removal date has been announced and is at least one month away from the release date of the package.

Reviewer 2: Do you mean the release date of the package that removes the component?

> - Manual and automated migration paths are documented and have been available for at least one month.

Reviewer 2: One month sounds short? Or is that a normal timeframe?

Author: I'm not sure. Maybe we see how it goes the first time we do this?
